>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, JULY 17: A SHOOTING
IN BATON ROUGE, LOUISIANA,
LEAVES THREE POLICE OFFICERS
DEAD.
ON THE EVE OF THE REPUBLICAN
NATIONAL CONVENTION IN
CLEVELAND, WHERE DO THE
DELEGATES STAND?
AND WHO IS DONALD TRUMP?
WE'LL ASK TWO BIOGRAPHERS OF THE
PRESUMPTIVE NOMINEE.
NEXT, ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING
AND THANKS FOR JOINING US.
BATON ROUGE, LOUISIANA WAS OFTEN
HIGH ALERT TODAY FOLLOWING A
DEADLY SHOOTING INVOLVING LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS THIS
MORNING.
AUTHORITIES SAY TWO POLICE
OFFICERS AND ONE SHERIFF'S
DEPUTY DIED IN A SHOOTOUT THAT
OCCURRED BEHIND A GAS STATION
ABOUT A MILE FROM THE CITY'S
POLICE HEADQUARTERS.
THREE OTHER OFFICERS WERE
WOUNDED BY GUN FIRE.
POLICE SAY THEY KILLED THE LONE
GUNMAN 0 HAD A RIFLE.
LATER ON, THE GOVERNOR AND MAYOR
SAID THE RESPONDED TO A 911 CALL
ABOUT A GUN WIELDING MAN.
>> THESE MEN RISKING THEIR LIVES
TO PROTECT AND SERVE THIS
COMMUNITY, WERE TAKEN OUT THE
WAY THAT THEY WERE.
THEY ARE REAL-LIFE, EVERYDAY
HEROES.
>> Sreenivasan: LOUISIANA'S
CAPITAL HAS BEEN TENSE SINCE THE
SHOOTING OF ALTON STERLING JULY
5th.
CHARLIE, YOU HAVE BEEN COVERING
THE SHOOTING AND THE KILLING OF
ALTON STERLING SINCE JULY 5th.
TELL US WHAT THE ATMOSPHERE IS
THERE NOW?
>>Reporter: THINGS ARE VERY
PEACEFUL AND CELEBRATIVE FUNERAL
OF ALTON STERLING.
THAT NERVOUSNESS AND ANXIETY WAS
BROUGHT UP AGAIN.
I LIVE ONLY ABOUT A MILE AWAY
FROM THE SCENE.
ABOUT A MILE HAS BEEN CORDONED
OFF AND CHURCH, LITTLE OLD LADY
THAT WAS TRYING TO HEAD BACK
FROM CHURCH WAS TOLD THERE'S AN
ACTIVE SHOOTING UNDERWAY AND
IT'S TIME TO JUST NOT GO HOME
RIGHT NOW, MAYBE GO OUT FOR
DINNER.
BUT RIGHT NOW IT WAS JUST TOO
UNSAFE.
>> Sreenivasan: GIVE ME AN
IDEA OF WHETHER THE COMMUNITY
HAS BEGUN THE PROCESS OF OPEN
CONVERSATION AND DIALOGUE OF THE
UNDERLYING FORCES AT WORK
BETWEEN THE PUBLIC AND THE
POLICE THERE.
>>Reporter: IT REALLY HAS.
I WAS PART OF A MEETING ON
TUESDAY THAT WAS PUT TOGETHER BY
A GROUP CALLED TOGETHER BATON
ROUGE, THE ONE THING I TOOK OUT
OF THIS THERE WERE PEOPLE BLACK
AND WHITE, YOUNG AND OLD GETTING
TOGETHER VERY CONFUSED.
YOU COULD SEE THE HEARTBREAK ON
THEIR FACES BUT ALSO HAD A SENSE
OF HOPE, HAD A SENSE OF OPENNESS
THAT THEY REALLY WANTED TO SEE
WHAT SOMEONE ELSE WAS THINKING
ABOUT THIS NO MATTER WHAT AGE,
NO MATTER WHAT RACE TO TRY AND
MOVE THIS CITY AND STATE
FORWARD.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
CHARLIE, THANKS SO MUCH FOR
JOINING US.
>> HARI, THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: GET THE LATEST
INFORMATION ON THE SHOOTING IN
BATON ROUGE THAT LEFT MULTIPLE
POLICE OFFICERS DEAD-- ONLINE AT
www.pbs.org/newshour.
WE TURN NOW TO CLEVELAND, WHERE
THE REPUBLICAN NATIONAL
CONVENTION, EXPECTED TO NOMINATE
DONALD TRUMP FOR PRESIDENT,
BEGINS TOMORROW.
FOLLOWING THE POLICE SHOOTINGS
IN BATON ROUGE TODAY AND IN
DALLAS TEN DAYS AGO, THE HEAD OF
CLEVELAND'S POLICE UNION CALLED
ON OHIO'S GOVERNOR TO SUSPEND
THE STATE'S "OPEN CARRY" LAW,
WHICH ALLOWS GUN OWNERS TO CARRY
THEIR WEAPONS IN PUBLIC, EVEN IN
DESIGNATED PROTEST ZONES NEAR
THE CONVENTION ARENA.
BUT THE OFFICE OF GOVERNOR JOHN
KASICH TOLD THE NEWSHOUR HE DOES
NOT HAVE THE LEGAL AUTHORITY TO
SUSPEND ANY STATE LAWS.
IN THE MEANTIME, TRUMP CAMPAIGN
CHAIRMAN PAUL MANAFORT SAID
TODAY THE CONVENTION'S GOAL IS
HELP AMERICANS UNDERSTAND DONALD
TRUMP THE MAN, NOT JUST TRUMP
THE CANDIDATE.
FOR MORE OF A PREVIEW OF THE
COMING WEEK IN CLEVELAND, I AM
JOINED BY THE NEWSHOUR'S OWN
JUDY WOODRUFF AND GWEN IFILL.
>> SO, GWEN THIS IS THE WEEK
WHEN WE GET TO STOP SAYING
PRESUMPTIVE REPUBLICAN NOMINEE.
>> Ifill: YES, THAT'S RIGHT,
THE INTERESTING THINGS ABOUT
THESE CONVERSATIONS, EVERY FOUR
YEARS, DURING ALL THE TALK
DURING THE PRIMARY SEASON,
PRESUMPTIVE NOMINEE GETS TO HAVE
THE STAGE TO HIM OR HERSELF.
WE'LL SEE IT AT PHILADELPHIA
WITH HILLARY CLINTON.
BUT TODAY WE ARE SEEING ALL THE
PREPS, THE MAKE AMERICA GREAT
SIGN MIND US AND WE'RE WATCHING
THEM PREPARE THEMSELVES FOR THE
MESSAGE THEY WANT DONALD TRUMP
TO DELIVER AND THE MESSAGE HE
WANTS TO DELIVER, IT'S GOING TO
BE FASCINATING HARI.
>> Sreenivasan: JUDY, WHO'S
GOING TO MAKE THE CASE FOR THE
TRUMP AUDIENCE AND THE
REPUBLICANS IN GENERAL?
>> Woodruff: THEY ARE
SPRINKLING THIS OUT TO US IN THE
MEDIA.
WE KNOW THERE ARE GOING TO BE
SENATORS, SENATOR JEFF SESSIONS
OF ALABAMA WHO HAS SUPPORTED
TRUMP AND OTHERS, GOVERNOR CHRIS
CHRISTIE WHO WAS PASSED OVER FOR
THE VICE PRESIDENTIAL.
BUT NONPOLITICAL NAMES WHOM THEY
ARE HOPING WILL BE THE MEMORABLE
SPEAKERS.
SOME TELEVISION STARS, THE STARS
IF YOU WILL FROM THE FIELD OF
ATHLETICS, AND SOME FIGURES, I
THINK YOU HAVE TO SAY OUT OF THE
WORLD OF NATIONAL SECURITY.
PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN AFFECTED
EITHER BY THAT WORD THAT IS NOT
MUSIC TO THE EARS OF HILLARY
CLINTON OR ANY OF THE PEOPLE
AROUND HER, BENGHAZI, THAT IS
GOING TO BE A THEME TOMORROW
NIGHT.
NATIONAL SECURITY.
AND THEN WE'RE GOING TO BE
SEEING MEMBERS OF THE TRUMP
FAMILY FROM MRS. TRUMP TO THE
GROWN CHILDREN.
IT'S GOING TO BE A VERY
TRUMP CONVENTION.
>> Sreenivasan: GWEN, PICKING
UP ON THE IDEA OF NATIONAL
SECURITY, GIVEN EVENTS THAT HAVE
BEEN HAPPENING IN THE PAST WEEK
AND A HALF, BOTH OVERSEAS AND
HERE DOMESTICALLY, HOW TIGHT IS
THE SECURITY, HOW HARD IS IT FOR
YOU TO GET WHERE YOU ARE NOW?
>> Ifill: IT'S ALWAYS
DIFFICULT TO GET INTO THESE
CONVENTION ARENAS.
BUT IT WON'T BE AS DIFFICULT
TODAY AS IT WILL BE TOMORROW
WHEN THE DELEGATES ARRIVE.
I DON'T THINK IT'S ANYTHING TO
DO WITH WHAT WE'VE SEEN IN THE
PAST COUPLE OF WEEKS, THAT'S
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN YOU PUT THESE
MANY PEOPLE IN ONE PLACE AT A
MOMENT OF WHAT COULD HAPPEN.
>> Sreenivasan: JUST A QUICK
PREVIEW OF WHAT WE CAN
EXPENDITURE THE AUDIENCES TO
SPEAK.
THIS IS ALSO A PARTNERSHIP WITH
NPR.
>> Woodruff: IT IS, WE'RE
HAPPY PBS WEEKEND SUNDAY HOST
RACHEL MARTIN WILL BE WITH US
AND SHARING THE TABLE WITH GWEN
AND ME, DOMENICO MONTANARO
AND MARA LIASSON.
>> Ifill: AND DAVID BROOKS
AND MARK SHIELDS.
WHOM WE GET TO SEE ALL THE TIME
ON THE NewsHOUR.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT, YOU
CAN TUNE IN ON PBS AROUND NPR.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THE
>> Sreenivasan: WHEN DONALD
TRUMP ANNOUNCED HIS PICK OF MIKE
PENCE AS HIS RUNNING MATE
YESTERDAY, HE SAID IT WAS, IN
PART, A BID FOR PARTY UNITY.
BUT ACHIEVING THAT CAN BE EASIER
SAID THAN DONE.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT JEFF
GREENFIELD IN CLEVELAND HAS THIS
A TALE OF TWO DELEGATES WHO
PERSONIFY THE GAP BETWEEN
TRUMP'S MOST ARDENT SUPPORTERS
AND DETRACTORS.
>> Reporter: CARL PALADINO IS A
MILLIONAIRE REAL ESTATE AND
BUSINESS ENTREPRENEUR FROM
UPSTATE NEW YORK.
HE WAS THE REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE
FOR GOVERNOR IN 2010 AND AN
EARLY TRUMP SUPPORTER.
>> HE'S BRINGING SALVATION.
I THINK AMERICA RIGHT NOW IS IN
A BIG TRANSITION, AND NO
QUESTION, THIS IS THE SECOND
AMERICAN REVOLUTION THAT WE'RE
WITNESSING TODAY.
>> Reporter: NEW HAMPSHIRE'S
GORDON HUMPHREY SERVED TWO TERMS
IN THE U.S. SENATE, WHERE HE WAS
KNOWN AS A STAUNCH CONSERVATIVE.
A KASICH SUPPORTER, HE WAS PART
OF THE FAILED "NEVER TRUMP"
MOVEMENT THAT TRIED TO "UNBIND"
PLEDGED DELEGATES FROM HAVING TO
VOTE FOR TRUMP ON THE
CONVENTION'S FIRST BALLOT.
>> I AM UTTERLY CONCERNED AND
EVEN FRIGHTENED FOR OUR COUNTRY.
I THINK DONALD TRUMP IS BURDENED
BY A PRETTY SICK PSYCHE.
HE SEEMS TO ME A MAN WHO
OPERATES WITHOUT A CONSCIENCE;
HE HAS NO SENSE OF GUILT, SHAME,
EMBARRASSMENT, REMORSE, REGRET.
THIS MAN SHOULD NOT BE
PRESIDENT, MUCH LESS COMMANDER-
IN-CHIEF.
>> Reporter: HUMPHREY BELIEVES
THE REPUBLICAN ESTABLISHMENT,
INCLUDING THE PARTY CHAIRMAN AND
SENATE MAJORITY LEADER, BEAR
HEAVY RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE
TRUMP'S RISE.
>> THIS IMPENDING TRAIN WRECK
FOR MY PARTY AND OUR NATION
COULD HAVE BEEN AVERTED IF
REINCE PRIEBUS, FOR EXAMPLE,
MITCH McCONNELL, AND OTHERS OF
THEIR STATURE HAD STOOD UP AND
SAID, "THIS IS NOT GOING TO
WORK.
THIS MAN IS UNFIT."
IF THEY HAD ENCOURAGED OTHERS
WHO ARE QUALIFIED, INCLUDING
THOSE WHO WERE RUNNING, TO
PERSIST.
>> Reporter: PALADINO ALSO
POINTS TO THE G.O.P.
ESTABLISHMENT AS A SOURCE OF
TRUMP'S SUCCESS-- BUT FOR VERY
DIFFERENT REASONS.
>> THE RANK AND FILE, AND I'LL
DESCRIBE THEM AS BASICALLY THE
MIDDLE CLASS, BLUE COLLAR, WHITE
COLLAR, WORKING MEN, THEY'VE
BEEN FESTERING WITH A LOT OF
ANGER.
THEY GAVE CONGRESS A REPUBLICAN
MAJORITY IN THAT LAST
CONGRESSIONAL RACE, AND
UNFORTUNATELY THEY DIDN'T USE IT
AS A BULLY PULPIT, AS AN
OPPOSITION GOVERNMENT.
>> Reporter: FOR HUMPHREY,
TRUMP'S LANGUAGE AND DEMEANOR
DEMONSTRATES HIS UNFITNESS FOR
THE OVAL OFFICE.
>> HE'S A DEMAGOGUE; HE'S GOTTEN
WHERE HE IS ON THE BASIS OF
APPEALS TO FEAR, INSECURITY,
ENVY, A BIT OF BIGOTRY,
XENOPHOBIA.
THESE ARE ALL THE BASEST HUMAN
EMOTIONS TO WHICH TRUMP HAS BEEN
APPEALING.
THAT PART IS EXCEEDINGLY
UNHEALTHY.
>> SHE'S CROOKED HILLARY!
>> Reporter: NO, SAYS PALADINO,
THE BLUNT TALK IS JUST WHAT
TRUMP VOTERS LOVE-- THAT HE
DOESN'T TALK LIKE A POLITICIAN.
>> WE BECAME FAMILIAR WITH,
"OH, WELL, YOU KNOW, YOU CAN'T
DO THAT, THAT'S GOING TO INSULT
SOMEBODY.
DON'T YOU SAY 'MERRY CHRISTMAS,'
BECAUSE YOU'RE GOING TO INSULT
SOMEBODY, YOU CAN'T DO THAT.
YOU HAVE TO BE POLITE, YOU HAVE
TO BE POLITICALLY CORRECT."
>> Reporter: AS FOR THE FUTURE?
HERE TOO, THE VIEWS COULD NOT BE
MORE DIFFERENT.
>> ONE LIKES TO THINK OF DONALD
TRUMP AS THE RESULT OF A PERFECT
STORM, THE CONVERGENCE OF
FACTORS THAT CAN HAPPEN ONLY
ONCE IN A CENTURY.
I'M NOT SO SURE THAT'S THE CASE.
THIS MAY BE A NEW PHENOMENON,
THIS CONJUNCTION OF CIRCUS
CLOWNS AS CANDIDATES AND GREEDY
MEDIA AS PROMOTERS.
>> THE REPUBLICAN PARTY IS US,
WE WON.
OKAY?
WE WON THE MAJORITY IN ALL THOSE
STATES WE CAME OUT AND OUR, OUR
CANDIDATE, OUR PRIMARY CANDIDATE
IS DONALD TRUMP.
>> Reporter: WHILE THESE
COMMENTS MAY NOT BE TYPICAL OF
THE REPUBLICANS GATHERING HERE
IN CLEVELAND, THEY DO REFLECT,
EVEN IF IN A HEIGHTENED STATE, A
QUALITY THAT UNITES TRUMPS MOST
FERVENT SUPPORTERS, AND
OPPONENTS-- A PASSIONATE,
INTENSE SENSE OF ANGER.
>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EVE OF
THE REPUBLICAN NATIONAL
CONVENTION, WE DECIDED TO TALK
TO TWO BIOGRAPHERS OF THE
PRESUMPTIVE PRESIDENTIAL
NOMINEE.
MICHAEL D'ANTONIO IS THE AUTHOR
OF "NEVER ENOUGH: DONALD TRUMP
AND THE PURSUIT OF SUCCESS,"
JUST REISSUED IN PAPERBACK AS
"THE TRUTH ABOUT TRUMP;" AND
DAVID CAY JOHNSTON IS THE AUTHOR
OF "THE MAKING OF DONALD TRUMP,"
WHICH WILL BE PUBLISHED ON
AUGUST 2.
FOR TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
NEWSHOUR POLITICAL DIRECTOR LISA
DESJARDINS SAT DOWN WITH THEM.
>> Desjardins: LET'S GO ALL THE
WAY BACK TO HIS CHILDHOOD, WHICH
I THINK MIGHT BE ONE OF THE
LEAST TALKED ABOUT ITEMS.
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, THE DEFINING
MOMENT OF DONALD'S CHILDHOOD WAS
WHEN HE WAS SENT OFF TO MILITARY
SCHOOL AT AGE 13.
BUT HERE'S A KID WHO'S BEEN
RAISED IN LUXURY, ATTENDED BY
SERVANTS.
HE EVEN HAD A CHAUFFEUR TAKE HIM
ON HIS PAPER ROUTE WHEN IT
RAINED.
BUT HE WAS A KIND OF WILD LITTLE
BOY AND HIS FATHER GOT TIRED OF
ANSWERING CALLS FROM THE SCHOOL.
SO IN AUGUST OF HIS 13th YEAR,
DONALD IS PACKED UP, AND HIS
FOUR SIBLINGS GET TO STAY HOME.
AND THIS PLACE, NEW YORK
MILITARY ACADEMY, WAS A PRETTY
ROUGH PLACE FOR A LITTLE BOY TO
BE ENSCONCED.
SO I THINK THIS MOMENT OF BEING
ESSENTIALLY BANISHED AND THEN
PLACED IN THIS VERY DISCIPLINED,
VERY HIERARCHICAL ENVIRONMENT
TAUGHT HIM, YOU KNOW, LIFE IS
TOUGH.
IT'S ALWAYS A FIGHT, AND YOU'RE
SUPPOSED TO WIN AT EVERYTHING.
AND HE DID THRIVE THERE.
EVEN IN HIS POSTURE, WHEN YOU
SEE HOW SORT OF STRAIGHT HE
STANDS, THAT'S NEW YORK MILITARY
ACADEMY VISIBLE IN A MAN WHO'S
NOW 70 YEARS OLD.
>> HE AND HIS BROTHERS ALSO, AS
BOYS, WERE TRAINED BY DAD IN THE
BUSINESS.
SO THEY WOULD SWEEP OUT
BASEMENTS, COLLECT COINS FROM
THE COIN-OPERATED LAUNDRY
MACHINES IN THE APARTMENT
BUILDINGS, SOMETIMES DO LITTLE
REPAIRS.
AND WHEN THEY GOT A LITTLE
OLDER, DAD WOULD HAVE THEM
COLLECT RENTS, BECAUSE HE
EXPECTED THEM TO ALL GO INTO THE
BUSINESS WITH HIM.
>> Desjardins: FRED TRUMP, AS
YOU'RE SAYING, HE WAS A REAL
ESTATE DEVELOPER.
HE'S THE ONE WHO REALLY BUILT
THAT INITIAL BUSINESS.
HOW MUCH OF A ROLE DID HE HAVE
IN THIS IDEA DONALD TRUMP HAS
THAT HE MUST WIN AT ALL COSTS?
AND THAT HE MUST HAVE AN
INCREDIBLE DRIVE, A WORK ETHIC?
>> I THINK WHAT'S REALLY
FASCINATING IS TO SEE THE DRIVE
THAT FRED IMPLANTED IN DONALD,
IN PART, BY REJECTING HIM.
YOU KNOW, I ACTUALLY THINK A LOT
OF WHAT DONALD IS DOING TODAY IS
STILL SEEKING HIS FATHER'S LOVE.
>> Desjardins: HOW MUCH OF A
ROLE DID HIS FATHER PLAY IN
FUNDING TRUMP'S BUSINESS AND IN
ESTABLISHING HIM?
>> SO, WHEN DONALD WAS STILL IN
DIAPERS, HE HAD AN ANNUAL TRUST
FUND INCOME OF $12,000, WHICH
WAS ABOUT FOUR TIMES WHAT THE
TYPICAL AMERICAN FAMILY WITH A
FULL-TIME WORKER MADE BACK THEN.
WHEN HE STARTED OUT, HIS FATHER
PUT HIM INTO DEALS.
HIS FATHER'S LIFELONG FRIEND ABE
BEAME BECAME MAYOR OF NEW YORK.
SO DONALD GOT ALL SORTS OF DEALS
FROM THE CITY, INCLUDING
40 YEARS OF NO PROPERTY TAXES
ON THE GRAND HYATT HOTEL THAT--
DONALD HAD REBUILT FROM THE
WRECK OF THE OLD COMMODORE.
>> Desjardins: SORT OF HOW HE
MADE HIS FIRST MARK WAS THAT--
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Desjardins: GRAND HYATT
PROJECT.
>> WHAT'S REALLY KIND OF
LAUGHABLE IS HE SAYS, "I
BORROWED $1 MILLION FROM MY
FATHER."
WELL, HE GOT ACCESS TO $40
MILLION IN FINANCING FOR THAT
COMMODORE HOTEL RENOVATION.
SO IF YOU CAN WALK INTO A BANK,
AND THEY'LL SAY, "YOU'RE FRED
TRUMP'S SON.
HERE'S $40 MILLION IN
CONSTRUCTION FUNDS."--
THAT'S A PRETTY BIG ADVANTAGE.
>> Desjardins: NO QUESTION.
BUT WHAT WAS HE ABLE TO DO?
HOW CREATIVE WAS HE, AND HOW
GOOD OF A DEAL MAKER WAS THE
YOUNG- AND MIDDLE-AGED DONALD
TRUMP?
>> THE TRUMP TOWER DEAL WAS
IMPRESSIVE.
DONALD WENT TO TIFFANY'S AND
MADE AN ARRANGEMENT WITH THEM
WHERE HE GOT THEIR AIR RIGHTS.
THEN HE GOT THE BONWIT TELLER
BUILDING.
YOU CAN'T TAKE THAT DEAL AWAY
FROM HIM.
NOW, IT WAS AIDED BY HIS DAD AND
IT STANDS AS, I THINK, THE
SINGULAR ACHIEVEMENT OF HIS
CAREER.
>> HE OWNS THE CHICAGO TRUMP
TOWER.
HE OWNS AN APARTMENT BUILDING A
COUPLE BLOCKS FROM TRUMP TOWER
NEW YORK.
HE OWNS 19 GOLF COURSES, WHICH
ARE HIS.
WHERE HE'S GOTTEN INTO TROUBLE
IS, HE HAS ISSUED THINGS SAYING,
"A DONALD TRUMP DEVELOPMENT,"
OR "I'M A BUILDER.
PEOPLE FOLLOW ME."
AND THEN, WHEN YOU FIND OUT
LATER THAT A, HE'S ONLY LICENSED
THE USE OF HIS NAME, AND HERE'S
THE REALLY BAD PART, LISA, YOU
DECIDE TO PUT YOUR MONEY INTO A
BUILDING BECAUSE THE TRUMP NAME,
IT'LL BE A MORE VALUABLE
APARTMENT.
AND WHAT YOU DON'T KNOW IS THAT,
WELL, HE'S NOT ONLY, ONLY
LICENSED HIS NAME.
THERE'S RENEWAL CLAUSES AND HE
CAN TAKE HIS NAME OFF THE
BUILDING.
HE COULD BUILD ONE RIGHT NEXT
DOOR AND NOBODY TOLD YOU THAT.
AND THAT'S WHAT'S LED TO A LOT
OF LITIGATION AGAINST DONALD
ACCUSING HIM OF CIVIL FRAUD.
>> Desjardins: MR. TRUMP HAS
ALSO SAID THAT THE TRUMP NAME,
HIS BRAND ITSELF IS WORTH A
BILLION DOLLARS.
HOW BIG OF AN ASSET IS THAT FOR
HIM?
>> I THINK IT'S A SUBSTANTIAL
PART OF HIS WEALTH.
HE IS A PIONEER OF SELF-
PROMOTION.
AND, AND OUR CULTURE HAS CHANGED
RADICALLY IN HIS LIFETIME.
I WRITE ABOUT HOW IN THE '60s
WHEN KIDS WERE ASKED WHAT THEY
WANTED WHEN THEY GREW UP, THEY
SAID, "I'D LIKE TO HAVE A NICE
MARRIAGE AND SOME KIDS AND BE
WELL-KNOWN IN MY COMMUNITY."
BY THE '70s, IT WAS, "I WANT TO
BE RICH AND FAMOUS."
AND THAT RICH AND FAMOUS
RESPONSE HAS BECOME MORE INTENSE
AS TIME HAS PASSED.
DONALD LED THE WAY IN THIS.
HE WAS DOING SELFIES BEFORE
ANYBODY ELSE KNEW WHAT A SELFIE
WAS.
>> Desjardins: WHAT IN HIS PAST
DO YOU THINK INFORMS HIS
DECISION TO MAKE STATEMENTS ON
THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL THAT ARE VERY
CONTROVERSIAL?
STATEMENTS ABOUT MUSLIMS, FOR
EXAMPLE, OR ABOUT MEXICANS?
>> I THINK HE UNDERSTANDS WHO
ARCHIE BUNKER IS.
DONALD'S FROM QUEENS.
HE KNOWS THE ANXIETIES OF PEOPLE
FACING CHANGE AND HOW THEY
RESENT THAT CHANGE.
I DON'T THINK THAT HE IS IN HIS
HEART-- A SUPERFICIALLY RACIST
GUY.
BUT I THINK HE KNOWS WHAT WILL
REVERBERATE WITH PEOPLE.
>> THAT'S WHERE I WOULD DISAGREE
WITH YOU, MICHAEL.
I MEAN, THE-- THE-- THE TRUMP
FAMILY HAS A LONG HISTORY OF
FINDINGS OF RACIAL
DISCRIMINATION IN THE RENTAL OF
HOUSING.
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT GOT AN
AGREEMENT WITH THEM.
AS SOON AS THE SUPERVISION WAS
OVER, THEY WENT RIGHT BACK TO
CODING SO THAT BLACKS WERE NOT
IN THE BUILDINGS.
AND DONALD TRIED TO DESCRIBE
THIS AS WANTING PEOPLE ON
WELFARE, WHEN THESE WERE PEOPLE
WHO HAD JOBS AND INCOMES.
BUT THEY WERE BLACK.
THEY DIDN'T WANT THEM IN THE
BUILDINGS.
>> DAVID IS RIGHT THAT IN THE
EARLY '70s, THE FIRST THING, THE
FIRST CHANCE HE GOT, HE-- HE
CRIED REVERSE RACISM WHEN THE
TRUMP ORGANIZATION WAS ACCUSED
OF NOT RENTING TO MINORITIES.
AND HIS LAWYER CALLED THE FEDS
"GESTAPO" AND "STORM TROOPERS."
>> Desjardins: THE TRUMP
CAMPAIGN, OF COURSE, HAS SAID,
AND DONALD TRUMP HIMSELF HAS
INSISTED THAT HE'S NOT RACISM;
HE'S JUST FIGHTING A CULTURE OF
POLITICAL CORRECTNESS.
BUT I WANT TO TALK TO SOMETHING
ELSE THAT GETS A LOT OF
ATTENTION IN DONALD TRUMP'S
BUSINESS CAREER.
LET'S TALK ABOUT ATLANTIC CITY.
>> DONALD NEVER HAD A DOLLAR
INVESTED IN ATLANTIC CITY.
HE BORROWED EVERY DOLLAR HE HAD.
AND IN HIS OWN BOOK, "THE ART OF
THE DEAL," HE BOASTS ABOUT HOW
HE DECEIVED HIS PARTNERS, THE
HARRAH'S COMPANY, HOLIDAY INNS,
IN THE BUILDING OF THE FIRST
CASINO.
>> Desjardins: SOME OF HIS
CASINOS FILED FOR BANKRUPTCY IN
ATLANTIC CITY... MOST OF THEM.
BUT WHO LOST IN THAT DEAL,
MICHAEL?
>> OH, BOND HOLDERS.
PEOPLE WHO BOUGHT TRUMP STOCK.
THERE WAS A TRUMP STOCK.
THERE, PEOPLE WHO WORKED IN
THESE FACILITIES, CONTRACTORS
WHO DIDN'T GET PAID.
THERE WERE A LOT OF VICTIMS IN
THIS.
>> I DON'T THINK HE LOST A
PENNY.
>> OH, HE MADE MONEY.
>> WITH DONALD, THERE HAVE BEEN
REAL VICTIMS.
YOU KNOW, THIS TRUMP UNIVERSITY
THING IS A TERRIBLE SCANDAL.
YOU KNOW, I INTERVIEWED THE
PEOPLE WHO INVESTED UP TO
$35,000 TO BE EDUCATED BY DONALD
TRUMP, AND MANY OF THEM WERE
PRESSURED TO PUT THE MONEY ON
THEIR CREDIT CARD.
SO IT'S A REALLY SLIPPERY SLOPE,
I THINK, FROM-- BEING TRICKY AND
CRAFTY AND SUCKING MONEY OUT OF
ATLANTIC CITY AND PROFITING ON
GAMBLING; AND TRULY EXPLOITING
PEOPLE WHO ARE VULNERABLE.
>> Desjardins: ONE OVERALL THEME
THAT I CANNOT MISS IN THIS WHOLE
CONVERSATION IS DONALD TRUMP'S
ABILITY TO ADAPT.
I THINK TRUMP AND SOME OF HIS
SUPPORTERS SAY, "MAYBE WE DON'T
NEED TO KNOW EXACTLY WHAT HE'S
GOING TO DO, BECAUSE WE KNOW
THAT HE'S ABLE TO ADAPT.
MAYBE IT'S OKAY THAT HE'S
CHANGED HIS POSITION ON
ABORTION, BECAUSE HE'S ADAPTED
TO WHAT THE VOTERS WANTED."
>> HE IS SO ADAPTABLE THAT
THERE'S NOT REALLY A CORE THERE.
>> Desjardins: BUT HE'S MAKING
THE ARGUMENT THAT IT IS NOT
ABOUT PROPOSALS BUT INSTEAD
ABOUT HIS OWN SKILLS AND
ABILITIES.
>> YES.
AND, HE THINKS THAT HE IS
SUPREMELY GIFTED AT DECISION
MAKING AND LEADERSHIP.
I THINK PEOPLE DO ADMIRE HIS
FLEXIBILITY, HIS ADAPTIVE
QUALITIES.
HE'S GONE THROUGH THE TABLOID
PRESS ERA, THE TELEVISION ERA,
THE INTERNET ERA, THE SOCIAL
MEDIA ERA.
HE'S MASTERED ALL OF THIS.
THIS BRAND BUILDING PROMOTIONAL
SKILL IS BREATHTAKING TO BEHOLD.
BUT WHETHER THAT REALLY TELLS US
ANYTHING AT ALL ABOUT HOW HE'D
ACT AS PRESIDENT, I THINK, IS
UNCERTAIN.
>> WELL, LISA, AS A BUSINESSMAN
AND AS A TV HOST, HE CAN SAY,
"YOU'RE FIRED," AND GET RID OF
YOU, AND SAY, "I DON'T WANT TO
DEAL WITH YOU."
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES DOESN'T HAVE THAT LUXURY.
HE HAS TO DEAL WITH FOREIGN
DICTATORS, WITH DEMOCRATICALLY
ELECTED FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS THAT
HE HAS NO CONTROL OVER.
HE HAS TO DEAL WITH CONGRESS,
WHICH MAY NOT WANT TO DO WHAT HE
WANTS TO DO.
HE DOESN'T HAVE THE UNILATERAL
POWER TO IMPOSE TARIFFS, WHICH
ARE A KIND OF TAX, TO BUILD A
WALL, TO DO ALMOST ANY OF THE
THINGS HE SAYS HE'S GOING TO DO,
BECAUSE OUR CONSTITUTION DOESN'T
PROVIDE FOR THAT.
>> Desjardins: WHAT IN HIS PAST
HAS PREPARED HIM FOR THIS
COMPLICATED MOMENT IN WORLD AND
NATIONAL POLITICS?
>> HE IS PRETTY RESILIENT.
HE'S A VERY BUOYANT PERSON.
SO I THINK HE'S LEARNED THAT THE
MOMENT OF DEFEAT IS NOT
NECESSARILY PERMANENT.
AND IN FACT, HE'S VERY GOOD AT
TURNING WHAT THE REST OF US
WOULD SEE AS A DEFEAT INTO A
VICTORY.
>> DONALD'S VERY GOOD AT
BOUNCING BACK.
AND WHEN THINGS DON'T WORK OUT
THE WAY HE WANTED, MOVING
SOMEWHERE ELSE.
AND YOU'VE GOT GIVE HIM CREDIT
FOR THAT.
SO HE'S MADE HIMSELF A HOUSEHOLD
NAME.
I DON'T KNOW HOW THAT HELPS YOU
AS PRESIDENT, BUT BOUNCING BACK
AND, AND SHIFTING WHEN IT'S
GOING TO MAKE HIM LOOK BAD,
DONALD'S REAL GOOD AT THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: IN TURKEY,
PRESIDENT RECEP ERDOGAN APPEARS
TO BE INTENSIFYING HIS CRACKDOWN
FOLLOWING THIS WEEKEND'S FAILED
MILITARY COUP.
TURKEY'S JUSTICE MINISTER SAID
TODAY THE GOVERNMENT HAS
DETAINED 6,000 PEOPLE, INCLUDING
THREE GENERALS AND HUNDREDS OF
SOLDIERS.
TODAY, TENS OF THOUSANDS OF
TURKS SHOWING THEIR SUPPORT FOR
THE ERDOGAN GOVERNMENT, MARCHED
THROUGH THE STREETS OF THE
CAPITAL, ANKARA, AND OTHER
CITIES.
LARGE CROWDS ATTENDED FUNERALS
FOR SOME OF THE 265 PEOPLE
KILLED IN CLASHES SINCE
THURSDAY.
ERDOGAN IS NOW PRESSING THE U.S.
TO EXTRADITE CLERIC FETHULLAH
GULEN, AN OPPOSITION LEADER, WHO
LIVES IN PENNSYLVANIA.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
SAID TURKEY MUST SHOW EVIDENCE
GULEN HAD ANYTHING TO DO WITH
THE ATTEMPTED COUP.
IN FRANCE TODAY, NICE'S MAIN
CATHOLIC CATHEDRAL HELD A
SPECIAL CHURCH SERVICE IN HONOR
OF THE 84 PEOPLE KILLED IN THE
TERRORIST ATTACK ON CIVILIANS ON
THURSDAY.
FRANCE'S HEALTH MINISTER SAID
TODAY 85 OF THE 200 PEOPLE
INJURED IN THE RAMPAGE REMAIN
HOSPITALIZED, 18 OF THEM IN
CRITICAL CONDITION.
TWO AMERICANS REPORTED MISSING
SINCE THE ATTACK REMAIN
UNACCOUNTED FOR.
THE PARIS PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE
SAYS ONLY 35 BODIES OF THE
DECEASED HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED.
FRENCH POLICE DETAINED TWO MORE
PEOPLE TODAY, TO BRING THE TOTAL
TO SIX IN CONNECTION WITH THE
INVESTIGATION.
THEY RELEASED THE ESTRANGED WIFE
OF THE TRUCK DRIVER, MOHAMED
BOUHLEL.
HE WAS KILLED BY POLICE AT THE
END OF HIS RAMPAGE.
FRANCE HAS NOT CONFIRMED ANY
LINK BETWEEN BOUHEL AND ISIS,
THOUGH THE GROUP CLAIMED
YESTERDAY HE WAS A ONE OF ITS
"SOLDIERS."
AND UPDATING OUR LEAD STORY,
LOUISIANA POLICE HAVE DETAINED
TWO PERSONS OF INTEREST IN
CONNECTION WITH TODAY'S SHOOTING
OF SIX BATON ROUGE LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS, THREE OF
THE SIX ARE DEAD.
PRESIDENT OBAMA CONDEMNED THE
ATTACK.
>> WE AS A NATION HAVE TO BE
LOUD AND CLEAR THAT NOTHING
JUSTIFIES VIOLENCE AGAINST LAW
ENFORCEMENT.
ATTACKS ON POLICE ARE AN ATTACK
ON ALL OF US AND THE RULE OF LAW
THAT MAKES SOCIETY POSSIBLE.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU CAN FOLLOW
OUR COVERAGE OF THOSE SHOOTINGS
IN BATON ROUGE AS WELL AS THE
REPUBLICAN CONVENTION ONLINE
AT PBS.ORG/NEWSHOUR.
AND THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION
OF PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN, HAVE A
GOOD NIGHT.